[Security][Workflows][9.5 & Serverless] Document security.* attack triage and detection rule action steps (#7449)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/workflows/steps/attack-triage.md

---
navigation_title: Attack triage
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.5+
  serverless: ga
description: Reference for the security.* action steps that let workflows set status, manage assignees, and manage tags on attacks in Elastic Security.
products:
  - id: kibana
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: cloud-hosted
  - id: cloud-enterprise
  - id: cloud-kubernetes
  - id: elastic-stack
---

# Attack triage action steps [workflows-attack-triage-steps]

> Attack triage action steps let workflows manage the attack lifecycle you triage on the [Attacks page](/solutions/security/ai/attack-discovery/manage-discoveries-from-attacks-page.md), including status changes, assignments, and tags on the correlated attacks that group related alerts, in {{elastic-sec}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attack triage action steps let workflows manage the lifecycle of attacks you triage on the [Attacks page](/solutions/security/ai/attack-discovery/manage-discoveries-from-attacks-page.md). This includes status changes, assignments, and tags on the correlated attacks that group related alerts in {{elastic-sec}}.
```

Author: Fixed in [`9c1b94b` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7449/commits/9c1b94be51b6aff2d8c80db6b10325de3a2ba77c).

:::{note}
These steps live under the `security.*` step type namespace (for example, `security.setAttackStatus`). They expose explicit input schemas for operations that were previously reachable only through the generic `kibana.request` step, so parameters are validated at save time and discoverable in the Workflows editor.
:::

> Use Attack triage steps for patterns like:

Reviewer: Same as https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7449/changes#r3656886547

Author: Fixed in [`9c1b94b` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7449/commits/9c1b94be51b6aff2d8c80db6b10325de3a2ba77c).

## Shared conventions [workflows-attack-triage-conventions]

Every Attack triage step shares the same conventions, so once you learn one step the others are predictable.

**All parameters live under `with`.** IDs, status, assignees, and tags are all `with`-level fields. There are no top-level fields specific to this namespace.

**Single or bulk.** The `ids` field accepts either a single string or an array of strings, so one step can target one or many attacks.

**Add/remove is not a full override.** For assignees and tags, existing values are preserved unless explicitly listed in the corresponding `*_to_remove` field. This is the opposite of a "set/replace" operation, so you can't overwrite the full list by sending only `*_to_add`.

**At least one of add/remove is required.** The assign and tags steps (`assignees_to_add`/`assignees_to_remove`, `tags_to_add`/`tags_to_remove`) require at least one of the pair. You can send both in a single step invocation.

**Cascade to related alerts.** Every attack step accepts an `update_related_alerts` boolean (default `false`) that also applies the change to the alerts correlated with the attack.

:::{note}

> The equivalent [alert steps](/explore-analyze/workflows/steps/alert-triage.md) use different parameter names. Attack steps use `ids` instead of `alert_ids` and `reason` instead of `close_reason`, and alert steps don't have the `update_related_alerts` parameter. Document and use these exactly as implemented, and don't normalize the names.

Reviewer: Same as https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7449/changes#r3656865394

Author: Fixed in [`9c1b94b` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7449/commits/9c1b94be51b6aff2d8c80db6b10325de3a2ba77c).

:::

:::{include} ../_snippets/schema-location-legend.md
:::

## Step catalog [workflows-attack-triage-catalog]

The 3 Attack triage steps manage the attack lifecycle. Jump to any step:

[`security.setAttackStatus`](#security-setattackstatus) ·
[`security.assignAttack`](#security-assignattack) ·
[`security.setAttackTags`](#security-setattacktags)

---

### `security.setAttackStatus` [security-setattackstatus]

Change the status of one or multiple attacks.

| Parameter | Location | Type | Required | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `ids` | `with` | `string` or `string[]` | Yes | A single attack ID or a list of IDs (bulk). |

> | `status` | `with` | `open` \| `acknowledged` \| `closed` | Yes | New status for the attacks. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `status` | `with` | `string` | Yes | New status for the attacks: `open`, `acknowledged`, or `closed`. |
```

Author: Fixed in [`9c1b94b` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7449/commits/9c1b94be51b6aff2d8c80db6b10325de3a2ba77c).

> | `reason` | `with` | string | No, only valid when `status: closed` | Reason for closing. Predefined values: `false_positive`, `duplicate`, `true_positive`, `benign_positive`, `automated_closure`, `other`. A custom string (max 1024 chars) is also accepted. |

Reviewer: Same question about `automated_closure`.
